README.md, before:

# Sonos Cloud integration for Home Assistant

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration)

The `sonos_cloud` integration uses the cloud-based [Sonos Control API](https://developer.sonos.com/reference/control-api/) to send [audioClip](https://developer.sonos.com/reference/control-api/audioclip/) commands to speakers. This allows playback of short clips (e.g., alert sounds, TTS messages) on Sonos speakers without interrupting playback. Audio played in this manner will reduce the volume of currently playing music, play the clip on top of the music, and then automatically return the music to its original volume. This is an alternative approach to the current method which requires taking snapshots & restoring speakers with complex scripts and automations.

This API requires audio files to be in `.mp3` or `.wav` format and to have publicly accessible URLs.

# Installation
**Easy**: Use [HACS](https://hacs.xyz) and add the Sonos Cloud Integration.

**Manual**: Place all files from the `sonos_cloud` directory inside your `<HA_CONFIG>/custom_components/sonos_cloud/` directory.

Both methods will require a restart of Home Assistant before you can configure the integration further.

You will need to create an account on the [Sonos Developer site](https://developer.sonos.com), and then create a new Control Integration. Provide a display name and description, provide a Key Name, and save the integration. It is not necessary to set a Redirect URI or callback URL. Save the Key and Secret values for the integration configuration.

# Configuration

Add an entry to your `configuration.yaml` using the Key and Secret from your Sonos app:
```yaml
sonos_cloud:
  client_id: <YOUR_APP_KEY>
  client_secret: <YOUR_APP_SECRET>
```

On the Integrations page in Home Assistant, add a new "Sonos Cloud" integration. You will be redirected to the Sonos website to login with your "normal" Sonos username and password (_not_ your Sonos Developer login). You will receive a prompt saying "Allow <YOUR_APP_NAME> to control your Sonos system". Accept this and the integration will complete configuration.

# Usage

The integration will create new `media_player` entities for each Sonos device in your household. These are created in order to use the `tts.<platform>_say` and `media_player.play_media` services to play the clips.

## Examples

```yaml
service: tts.cloud_say
data:
  entity_id: media_player.front_room
  message: "Hello there"
```

Service calls to `media_player.play_media` can accept an optional `volume` parameter to play the clip at a different volume than the currently playing music:
```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
data:
  entity_id: media_player.kitchen
  media_content_id: https://<unique_cloud_id>.ui.nabu.casa/local/sound_files/doorbell.mp3
  media_content_type: music
  extra:
    volume: 35  # Can be provided as 0-100 or 0.0-0.99
```

A special `media_content_id` of "CHIME" can be used to test the integration using the built-in sound provided by Sonos. This can be useful for validation if your own URLs are not playing correctly:
```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
data:
  entity_id: media_player.kitchen
  media_content_id: CHIME
  media_content_type: music
```

# Limitations

If you encounter issues playing audio when using this integration, it may be related to one of the following reasons.

## Home theater & stereo pair configurations

This API targets a specific speaker to play the alert and does not play on all speakers in a "room". For example, a stereo pair will only play back audio on the left speaker and a home theater setup will play from the "primary" speaker. This appears to be a current limitation of the Sonos API.

## Media URLs

If serving files from your Home Assistant instance (e.g., from the `/www/` config directory or via TTS integrations), the URLs must be resolvable and directly reachable from the Sonos speakers.

### TTS

To configure TTS integrations to use external URLs, set the `base_url` configuration option.

Examples:
```yaml
tts:
  - platform: cloud
    base_url: 'https://<unique_cloud_id>.ui.nabu.casa'
    language: en-US
    gender: female
```
or
```yaml
tts:
  - platform: google_translate
    base_url: 'https://xxxxxx.duckdns.org:8123'
```

## Secure connections

Sonos devices have strict security requirements if served media over an SSL/TLS connection. See more details here: https://developer.sonos.com/build/content-service-get-started/security/.

Commit message:

Add support for simultaneous playback on bonded speakers

README.md, after:

# Sonos Cloud integration for Home Assistant

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration)

The `sonos_cloud` integration uses the cloud-based [Sonos Control API](https://developer.sonos.com/reference/control-api/) to send [audioClip](https://developer.sonos.com/reference/control-api/audioclip/) commands to speakers. This allows playback of short clips (e.g., alert sounds, TTS messages) on Sonos speakers without interrupting playback. Audio played in this manner will reduce the volume of currently playing music, play the clip on top of the music, and then automatically return the music to its original volume. This is an alternative approach to the current method which requires taking snapshots & restoring speakers with complex scripts and automations.

This API requires audio files to be in `.mp3` or `.wav` format and to have publicly accessible URLs.

# Installation
**Easy**: Use [HACS](https://hacs.xyz) and add the Sonos Cloud Integration.

**Manual**: Place all files from the `sonos_cloud` directory inside your `<HA_CONFIG>/custom_components/sonos_cloud/` directory.

Both methods will require a restart of Home Assistant before you can configure the integration further.

You will need to create an account on the [Sonos Developer site](https://developer.sonos.com), and then create a new Control Integration. Provide a display name and description, provide a Key Name, and save the integration. It is not necessary to set a Redirect URI or callback URL. Save the Key and Secret values for the integration configuration.

# Configuration

Add an entry to your `configuration.yaml` using the Key and Secret from your Sonos app:
```yaml
sonos_cloud:
  client_id: <YOUR_APP_KEY>
  client_secret: <YOUR_APP_SECRET>
```

On the Integrations page in Home Assistant, add a new "Sonos Cloud" integration. You will be redirected to the Sonos website to login with your "normal" Sonos username and password (_not_ your Sonos Developer login). You will receive a prompt saying "Allow <YOUR_APP_NAME> to control your Sonos system". Accept this and the integration will complete configuration.

# Usage

The integration will create new `media_player` entities for each Sonos device in your household. These are created in order to use the `tts.<platform>_say` and `media_player.play_media` services to play the clips.

## Examples

```yaml
service: tts.cloud_say
data:
  entity_id: media_player.front_room
  message: "Hello there"
```

Service calls to `media_player.play_media` can accept optional parameters under `data`->`extra`:
* `volume` will play the clip at a different volume than the currently playing music
* `play_on_bonded` will play on all _bonded_ speakers in a "room" (see [notes](#home-theater--stereo-pair-configurations) below)
```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
data:
  entity_id: media_player.kitchen
  media_content_id: https://<unique_cloud_id>.ui.nabu.casa/local/sound_files/doorbell.mp3
  media_content_type: music
  extra:
    volume: 35  # Can be provided as 0-100 or 0.0-0.99
    play_on_bonded: true
```

A special `media_content_id` of "CHIME" can be used to test the integration using the built-in sound provided by Sonos. This can be useful for validation if your own URLs are not playing correctly:
```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
data:
  entity_id: media_player.kitchen
  media_content_id: CHIME
  media_content_type: music
```

# Limitations

If you encounter issues playing audio when using this integration, it may be related to one of the following reasons.

## Home theater & stereo pair configurations

A stereo pair will only play back audio on the left speaker and a home theater setup will play from the "primary" speaker. This is because of a limitation in the API which can only target a single speaker device at a time.

When using the `play_on_bonded` extra key, the integration will attempt to play the audio on all bonded speakers in a "room" by making multiple simultaneous calls. Since playback may not be perfectly synchronized with this method it is not enabled by default.

## Media URLs

If serving files from your Home Assistant instance (e.g., from the `/www/` config directory or via TTS integrations), the URLs must be resolvable and directly reachable from the Sonos speakers.

### TTS

To configure TTS integrations to use external URLs, set the `base_url` configuration option.

Examples:
```yaml
tts:
  - platform: cloud
    base_url: 'https://<unique_cloud_id>.ui.nabu.casa'
    language: en-US
    gender: female
```
or
```yaml
tts:
  - platform: google_translate
    base_url: 'https://xxxxxx.duckdns.org:8123'
```

## Secure connections

Sonos devices have strict security requirements if served media over an SSL/TLS connection. See more details here: https://developer.sonos.com/build/content-service-get-started/security/.
